GCIP/EOP Surface: Precipitation NCEP/EMC 4KM Gridded Data (GRIB) Stage IV Data
https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.093

Summary
The Stage IV analysis is based on the multi-sensor hourly/6-hourly 'Stage III'
analyses (on local 4km polar-stereographic grids) produced by the 12 River
Forecast Centers (RFCs) in CONUS. NCEP mosaics the Stage III into a national
product (the Stage IV). Hourly, 6-hourly and 24-hourly (accumulated from the
6-hourly) analyses are available. The Stage IV differs from the NCEP Stage II
chiefly in that the NCEP Stage II contains no manual quality control (QC),
while the Stage IV benefits from manual QC performed on the Stage III data at
the RFCs. As of April 2017 this data includes Alaska and Puerto Rico stations.

These data are processed manually monthly, so the date new data are available
varies. The data for each month are received from NCEP/EMC around the second
week of the following month, and generally loaded within a few days of
receipt. If data have not been received by the 20th of the month, then
NCEP/EMC is contacted for an update. Since this is a manual process, dates are
affected by the availability of EOL staff. If data are not available by the
22nd, please contact us for an update. System order size limits are about 6
months of data. If you need to download the entire dataset at once
immediately, please contact us for alternate download arrangements (subject to
EOL staff availability). January 18, 2019 - It was noticed that the Alaska and
Puerto Rico stations were not actually included in the dataset as mentioned in
the data description. As of this date, all the data (from April 2017) for the
Alaska and Puerto Rico stations are now included in this dataset.

Identifiers
 * Local archive identifier: 21.093
 * doi:10.5065/D6PG1QDD
   https://doi.org/10.5065/D6PG1QDD

Versions
  1.0

Citation
Example citation following ESIP guidelines (http://bit.ly/data_citation):

 Lin, Y. 2011. GCIP/EOP Surface: Precipitation NCEP/EMC 4KM Gridded Data
 (GRIB) Stage IV Data. Version 1.0. UCAR/NCAR - Earth Observing Laboratory.
 https://doi.org/10.5065/D6PG1QDD Accessed 13 Sep 2019.

Additional citation styles can be generated by entering the DOI
at CrossCite (https://citation.crosscite.org/).

Acknowledgement
In addition to the citation reference and any other acknowledgements,
please acknowledge NCAR/EOL in your publications with text such as:

  Data provided by NCAR/EOL under the sponsorship of
  the National Science Foundation.
  https://data.eol.ucar.edu/

Related projects
 * Operational: Operational Datasets
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/Operational
 * NAME: North American Monsoon Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/NAME
 * GCIP/EOP: GCIP Enhanced Observing Period
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project?name=GCIP%2FEOP

Additional information
 * Spatial Type: point
 * Frequency: hourly
 * Language: English

Categories
 * Surface

Platforms
 * NCEP Precipitation

Documentation
 * katz_stageIV_readme.txt [1 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/datafile/nph-get/21.093/katz_stageIV_readme.txt
 * katz_missing_data.txt [13 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/datafile/nph-get/21.093/katz_missing_data.txt

Related links
 * info: RDA duplicate archive
   http://rda.ucar.edu/datasets/ds507.5/
 * info: Hourly Precipitation Analysis at NCEP/EMC
   http://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/mmb/ylin/pcpanl/

Temporal coverage
 * Begin datetime: 2002-01-01 00:00:00 
 * End datetime: 2019-07-31 23:00:00 

Spatial coverage
 * Maximum (North) Latitude: 71.413
 * Minimum (South) Latitude: 17.853
 * Minimum (West) Longitude: -176.836
 * Maximum (East) Longitude: -65.544

Primary contact information
 * pointOfContact: Ying Lin <ying.lin@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/429

Additional contact information
 * author: Ying Lin <ying.lin@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/429
 * EOL_internal: Linda Echo-Hawk <echohawk@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/815

Alternate metadata formats
 * DataCite: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.093?format=datacite
 * ISO/TC 211: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.093?format=isotc211
